
---
title: Jun 9th, 2022 
date: 2022-06-08T23:04:23.066Z
slug: jun-9th-2022
type: journal
---
* Thought: (this won't make sense to anyone reading :D)
  * I saw a demo of replacing a media stream from the camera and transforming it with [MediaStreamTrackGenerator - Web APIs | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrackGenerator) and [MediaStreamTrackProcessor - Web APIs | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrackProcessor)  and it blew my mind and made me think about permissions and trust on the web.
    * Lock down your site so it has no permissions and can't request something like Camera access? [Zero Permission] sites.
    * There is one site on the web that you trust to use the camera. The user opens that window and makes a camera stream, maybe it morphs the video too, puts some AR filters on it and then pipes it to the Window?
    * Transform stream to get Web Cam access and postMessage back to the calling app.
      * [streams/transferable-streams-explainer.md at main · whatwg/streams · GitHub](https://github.com/whatwg/streams/blob/main/transferable-streams-explainer.md)
    * Does this work? Are all the pieces in place?
    * The other side of this is - you could provide a Stream Manipulation service so you don't have to import all the code to your page.
      * You could have a control panel for web apps that puts a BRB up on the video stream?
* Thought: Dieter Bohn posited "what's the next wow moment for the web?", I then asked my team and [Rachel Andrew](../entry/rachel-andrew) asked "for users or developers"? Both I suppose.
  * I had two different thoughts in my head about what made me go Wow in the past
  * As a develoepr - MessageChannel API, I can pass these pipes through pipes and it opened my mind to a completely different way to build web sites.
  * As a user was video conferencing on the web
  * There are lots of other moments, but they were the first two I picked out.
  * Reflecting more, seeing Squoosh was another as a user and a developer.
  * When restaurants opened after COVID and I just paid and left with a QR code and Google Pay (kinda imagine how seamless it is with Apple Pay).

