
---
title: May 10th, 2022 
date: 2022-05-10T07:16:11.983Z
slug: may-10th-2022
type: journal
---
* Read [Emma Twersky](../entry/emma-twersky)'s [Introducing inert - Chrome Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/inert/)
  * Great write up and intro. I'd never actually taken the time to understand the feature and the article was a great write up that really helped me grok it.
* Read [Deep Dive into Text Wrapping and Word Breaking / Coder's Block](https://codersblock.com/blog/deep-dive-into-text-wrapping-and-word-breaking/)
  * Amazing list of tips. I wish I had something like this years ago (although there's a fair few new features) TIL `overflow-wrap: anywhere`
* Read [Alex Russell](../entry/alex-russell)'s [A Management Maturity Model for Performance - Infrequently Noted](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/)
  * [Value proposition](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#value-propositions)
    * When I used to work in [Fraud Detection](../entry/fraud-detection) the product's were sold as loss prevention, it doesn't make you more and open up new markets, it helps you lose less, that was the pitch and it does work assuming the cost of the solution is significantly less than the losses prevented. I wish we just were more honest about it.
      * A question that a business should ask is "what does our performance culture cost?" That calculation is not brought about at all in any of this piece or broadly across any other literature and I think it's an open wound. You can then balance this against the other work that you are doing.
        * I've been involved in many of the same meetings as Alex in the past and there was always a dance and a priority of "time to market" vs "run time in market". My read of this article is that I'm not convinced this is solved and it won't convince people to solve it.
    * It's not until the end of the article "Do we understand how better performance would improve our business?" "Is there a shared understanding in the leadership team that slowness costs money/conversions/engagement/customer-success?" Loss prevention. Yes managers should understand this.
  * [Protecting the commons](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#protecting-the-commons)
    * It deals with the 'big rewrite'. To be fair, we also see a lot of companies changing stack frequently. There's a piece in this section that resonates, people do lose track of their stack and their code.
    * There's a nice pivot to teams start to think about performance mangement discipline.
  * [Management attributes](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#levels-of-performance-management-maturity)
    * I found the rest of the article pretty hard to parse.
      * A single infographic would have worked better.
    * The order of attack is different from the order of reading. A "level 1" manager will never succeed if they don't have buy-in. "Level 5 managers" are thinking about buy-in because they're at the strategy level.
    * It's not clear that [Alex Russell](../entry/alex-russell) has presented the case against a team needing to ship other features and value-adds that businesses see when competing for customers. The argument is about choosing a tech stack and the impacts there. While valid, the bigger issue is that the business has priorities elsewhere, it's why we used to try and pitch "Performance as a feature" but we suffered the same fate "what value is the feature?" loss prevention or new addressable market opportunities.
      * I think we fell in love with the Amazon "100ms" quote and saw that as "New Markets" when in fact its loss prevention.
      * There's a quote about when an exec says something is slow... That feels like a rare occurrence unless the exec cares about performance (in which case the culture should have existed) or they see a competitor beat them and it then becomes a differentiator and that's rare too.
        * Alex acknowledges in a footnote this rarely happens "[Managers may fear that by telling everyone about how strategic and important performance has become to them, that their competitiors[sic] will wise up and begin to out-execute on the same dimension.](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#:~:text=Managers%20may%20fear%20that%20by%20telling%20everyone%20about%20how%20strategic%20and%20important%20performance%20has%20become%20to%20them%2C%20that%20their%20competitiors%20will%20wise%20up%20and%20begin%20to%20out%2Dexecute%20on%20the%20same%20dimension.)" ... "[the problems that prevent the competition from achieving high-functioning performance are not strictly technical](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#:~:text=the%20problems%20that%20prevent%20the%20competition%20from%20achieving%20high%2Dfunctioning%20performance%20are%20not%20strictly%20technical.)".  It's also not strictly the eng managers either, it's the business has other priorities
      * We should recognise the managers that build a performance culture naturally without exec buy-in.
    * The segregation of team management attributes has no cited data and honestly feels like pseudo-science. A linked article about similar work [Understanding Where You Fit in the Web Performance Maturity Curve | Splunk](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/devops/understanding-where-you-fit-in-the-web-performance-maturity-curve.html) is interesting, but I would actually like to see the studies, cited data etc.
    * I get mildly frustrated at quotes like "[(where all developers and managers live) and the median user.](https://infrequently.org/2022/05/performance-management-maturity/#:~:text=(where%20all%20developers%20and%20managers%20live)%20and%20the%20median%20user.)"
      * I mean I get it, we all test on our local devices, maybe if we are lucky we test on web page test. But the way I've experienced it is that teams are "time poor" and "feature hungry" - you have to ship and keep shipping, and that's at odds of a deliberate performance culture in many cases unless you have senior leads who can build it without slowing team performance.
  * [Yahoo! JAPAN's password-free authentication reduced inquiries by 25%, sped up sign-in time by 2.6x](https://web.dev/yahoo-japan-identity-case-study/) .
    * Very excited for this password-less future, and it's great to see [Eiji Kitamura](../entry/eiji-kitamura) doing his [A path to a world without passwords](https://io.google/2022/program/e3bb37a4-2723-4d72-a5b3-1a23abb94ac0/) talk.
    * As cookies go away it's great to see browser based primitives coming out to support the use-cases people have relied on cookies for (sing-in, auth etc.). It looks complex, but there is a simplicity to it which is rather refreshing.
  * Read [RSS - Chris Coyier](https://chriscoyier.net/2022/04/29/rss-3/)
    * It's hard to set up all the infrastructure that you need to replace something as realtime as twitter. That being said, you should own the platform you post on!
  * Read [Chrome Releases: Extended Stable Channel Update for Desktop](https://chromereleases.googleblog.com/2022/05/extended-stable-channel-update-for.html)
    * TIL we have an extended stable channel. 8 weeks, not the current 4.
      * Still, one of the biggest feature requests that I have is for people to download a specific version of Chrome for testing and it's impossible to do.
* 

