---
slug: channel-9-re-design
date: 2005-08-28
 
title: Channel 9 Re-Design
published: true
---
There are several Websites that I really respect on the Internet, one of them is Channel 9.<p />Channel 9 is a Microsoft website that is run by some of the developer/evangelist (Robert Scoble, Jeff Sands et Al [sorry if I missed anyone else out]) guys over there to let the Developer Community know what is going on in Microsoft. Over the past year, I have been watching their videos (Most of them are excellent), just to see what happens there and what runs through their heads.<p />I must say, Microsoft seems like an excellent place to work, a lot of creativity and some great minds work there.<p />Anyway, to get back on track; Channel 9 has had a major overhaul to the UI and I must say that it looks sweet. They have removed their Blog style vertical list of entries and replaced it with a much nicer "Most Recent" section, therefore a lot of the important content is on one screens worth of space, rather than about 9 screens worth of vertical real-estate. I have been touting with this idea on my site, but the feedback I have had is that most people like the "traditional" blog style.<p />The comment section, looks pretty funky. There is a lot going on on the page, but the design is a design that I like. One of the things I think is pretty cool, is the box with something popping out of it. [see the pics]. I don't know why I like it, maybe it appears they are not constrained by HTML tables and stuff, they are breaking out of it or something. I don't know what it is but I have always thought it looks pretty darn cool! [NOTE: I think this is an artifact from the fact that my screen is so small and the content of IE7 gets squashed]<p />[[posterous-content:jrezBtwzFwxekJloCkBp]]<p />[[posterous-content:kbHeAzmzlAzhbqkGmokC]]<p />They have also included a Tagging section, which list the most popular Topics that people are talking about. Ala Technorati (Which still doesn't consistently index my site). I really like this, even though it harks back to the old Yahoo style directory of topics system. It's an Idea that I think if used correctly can be a really cool and extra value added feature. I can see what people are talking about and what topics interest people. It kind of helps me, because, I know that I can determine if something I talk about will be interesting to people.<p />My General opinion of the new design is a BIG THUMBS UP. I really like what they have done. Well done guys.<p />Even if you don't like the design, I would still recommend the content of the site, it is truly amazing!<p /><table class="TechnoratiHead TagHeader">
<tr><td>Related Tags</td></tr>
<tr class="Technorati"><td>
<a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Robert%20Scoble" class="Tag" rel="tag">Robert Scoble</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Channel%209" class="Tag" rel="tag">Channel 9</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Microsoft" class="Tag" rel="tag">Microsoft</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Technorati" class="Tag" rel="tag">Technorati</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Blog" class="Tag" rel="tag">Blog</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Ie7" class="Tag" rel="tag">Ie7</a> <a href="https://paul.kinlan.me/tags/Yahoo" class="Tag" rel="tag">Yahoo</a>
</td></tr>
</table>

