---
date: 2005-07-30
published: true
slug: ie7-beta-1
summary: I've been trying out IE7 Beta 1 and have some mixed feelings. While I like
  the tabbed browsing and the new tab placement, I'm not sure it's the ideal UI.  It
  makes it difficult to compare sites side-by-side and to see open pages in the taskbar
  like I could with separate windows.  A hybrid approach, like Office's per-document
  window or better taskbar tooltips, might be a good compromise. Also, my ATOM feed
  isn't being auto-discovered, and I'd like to know how IE7 handles feed discovery
  in general.  I'm looking forward to the improved CSS support in Beta 2, although
  some rendering bugs are already fixed in this build.
tags:
- IE7
- Beta 1
- Tabbed Browsing
- RSS
- ATOM
- Feed Discovery
- CSS
- UI
- Windows UI
- Microsoft
title: IE7 Beta 1

---
<p>I have been playing with <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/ie" rel="tag">IE7</a>, I quite like it. Not played around with it too much. I had to make sure that my site worked with it :) And it does, however I did notice that my feed is not discovered automatically. Maybe because it is an ATOM feed, but I don't know. I also noticed that <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/ie" rel="tag">IE7 </a>doesn't seem to be completly consistant with how it discovers feeds on a page. I would love to know how it auto discovers RSS/ATOM feeds.</p><p>I also like the tabbed browsing, I like the new empty tab on the right of all the other tabs so I can easily open up a new tab. I don't know if I will still like it in the future. I still don't think tabbed browsing is the "correct" UI way of doing things. I think it kinda breaks the whole Windows UI process. For one, if I want to compare sites side-by-side I still have to have more than one window open. Would it be hard to develop tabbed browsing that allows you to be a bit more flexible with the application. Futher more, what I like about having multiple windows open is that I can easily see what pages I have open (even when minimised) simply by looking at the task bar. In a tabbed environment I can't do that and I really miss that type of feature. Of course I can still use multiple instances of <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/ie" rel="tag">IE7</a>. But I want the benefits of Tabbed browsing and Multi-Window browsing all in one. A middle solution could be the way office works, with each document is a new window. Another idea might be better tool-tips on the task bar items.</p><p>I have also read that <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/ie" rel="tag">IE7 </a>CSS 2.0 support is being upgraded in Beta 2. But a lot of CSS rendering <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2005/07/29/445242.aspx">bugs </a>have been fixed in this build.</p><p>Anyway to summarise:</p><ul>
<li>How are RSS Feeds Discovered.</li>
<li>Does IE Support ATOM in this Beta.</li>
<li>What happens when I click a auto discovered feed.</li>
<li>Is this the final way tabbed browsing will work.</li>
<ul>
<li>I like the Blank Insert Tab Tab.</li>
<li>I am not keen on not knowing what pages I am looking at through the task bar.</li>
</ul>
</ul>

