---
date: 2005-08-08
published: true
slug: just-a-little-something-i-am-working-on
summary: I'm developing an AJAX application to automatically generate Technorati,
  Feedster, and MSN search boxes with relevant tags for my blog posts. It's a JavaScript
  webservice queryer that uses results from one service as input for another. Currently,
  it only supports IE6/7 due to cross-domain data source import restrictions in Firefox.  I'm
  exploring JavaScript code signing as a potential solution. The application integrates
  with Yahoo webservices, with plans to include Technorati and hopefully Feedster.  There
  are security concerns regarding my Yahoo key. I aim to have a prototype available
  for feedback soon.
tags:
- AJAX
- JavaScript
- Webservices
- Yahoo
- Technorati
- Feedster
- MSN Search
- Cross-domain
- Security
- Prototype
- Blog
- Tags
title: Just a little something I am working on

---
I am currently working on a little AJAX application.  Over the past few weeks, with each blog entry that I have written I have struggled to keep the Technorati Tags, Feedster and MSN search boxes up todate, with the AJAX application I will automatically be able to generate these information boxes with relevant tags and searches.<p />Basically it is a JavaScript only Webservice queryer.  The client side parses the results and uses these results as the input for another webservice..... It's all about integration! :)<p />Currently it only supports Internet Explorer (IE7, and IE6), Firefox support is lacking at the moment, purely because I cannot import datasources from sites other than the current domain.  I think this is a major downer really.  I am quite restriced with what I can do in Firefox, but I suppose that is part and partial of the secure nature of the project.  I have read about some JavaScript code signing that might work; I am yet to investigate this route though.<p />Currently the AJAX appliction integrates with Yahoo webservices.  But it will integrate in to technorati too.  I am hoping also that I can find some developer support at Feedster and see what I can do with their systems.<p />I need to iron out some "Key" security issues that I have, I don't particularly want to have to show the public my Yahoo! key but If I must, I must.<p />I hope to get I prototype up tonight so that people can break it.  And I can get feed back.<p />More a little later.  Hopefully the tags below will be generated by this tool!

