---
slug: weekly-web-development-links-1st-March
date: 2015-03-01
title: "Weekly Web Development links"
description: "A weekly run-down of some interesting things that I have found"
---


Do you remember how I said the other week that last week will be a bumper week 
of News? Well.... It would have been if we launched what we had planned to 
launch. I've decided to give you some small nuggets of information now, and this 
Friday do the full post. Fear not though, I have a lot of great content for you 
still.

### Chrome Developer Tools: Performance Group [[link](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1-akr-wgM9dKzeg3BxiMHT4BoCw0WV-mD61Kj2wVt9z4/viewform?c=0&w=1)]

Here on Chrome we want to make it easier for everyone to create high performance 
web applications with a great user experience. If you are interested in or 
working with web performance, we'd love to learn about how you interact with web 
performance tools, where you struggle and hear your great ideas! Sign up using 
the above link if you would like to participate and we will send you a follow-up 
email soon.

### Creating semantic sites with Web Components and JSON-LD [[link](http://updates.html5rocks.com/2015/03/creating-semantic-sites-with-web-components-and-jsonld)]

With the rising popularity of web components and supporting libraries like 
Polymer, custom elements become an attractive way to build UI features. The 
default encapsulation of custom elements makes them especially useful for 
creating independent widgets. Learn about why this is important.

### Monthly Media Mailing list [[link](http://www.medianews.me/)]

My good friend and colleague Sam Dutton has started a new newsletter that 
aggregates all the important happenings in media related platform technology 
across iOS, Android and the Web. It's a must read.

### Detecting injected content from third-parties on your site [[link](https://paul.kinlan.me/detecting-injected-content/)]

Do you know if any ISP's are injecting Ads or anything else in to your site? No. 
I thought not. It is critical that you understand the implications of 1) not 
being on HTTPS and 2) Not logging all external requests. I found that a number 
of users either have extensions or viruses that inject content that I didn't 
create into my site.

### The discovery problem [[link](https://paul.kinlan.me/the-discovery-problem/)]

Does the discovery problem of app stores, search and everywhere else only affect 
those who don't or can't market?

If you want to get this in your inbox then [please subscribe](http://www.refreshbox.co/newsletterInfo/oWesTmTrG6w).
