---
date: 2018-03-12 13:19:31+00:00
description: A curl-like utitly that runs JavaScript
slug: domcurl
summary: I've been exploring the potential of the Headless Web, a future where web
  technologies power everything without traditional browsers.  I created domcurl,
  a NodeJS utility similar to curl, but with the added ability to execute JavaScript
  using Puppeteer.  This allows developers to inspect the fully rendered output of
  web pages, crucial in today's JavaScript-heavy web development landscape.  While
  domcurl doesn't yet support streaming like curl, it offers features like custom
  headers, cookies, and even Chrome DevTools trace output.  It's a step towards harnessing
  the power of headless browsers for tasks like dynamic data parsing and automated
  interactions.
tags:
- headless web
- puppeteer
- curl
- javascript
- nodejs
- devtools
- web scraping
- automation
- domcurl
title: 'domcurl: curl + JavaScript'

---

For a long time I've been thinking about what the future of the web looks like
when we go past what we know as the traditional web browser. I called this [The
Headless Web](/the-headless-web/) and I wanted to answer was "What if everything
was powered by 'The Web', but you never saw a browser?". Specifically I believe
that if you have access to a full browser, but no visible to "chrome" then there
is a huge opportunity for a new set of services.

> Using the browser as a service is an incredible opportunity. It allows us to
> take the declarative HTML and combine it with the developer defined procedural
> execution of JavaScript and run deep analysis on the content.

> ...

> Running a browser on the server will allow us to more easily build services
> which parse data that is generated dynamically, it will allow us to more
> easily us run our own logic against the logic in a page (form fill as an
> example) and I believe that it will open up the ability to more effectively
> run actions against data embedded on the page.

It's taken a while, but I think we are getting there.

I'm enamored by [Puppeteer](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/puppeteer/).
Puppeteer is a JavaScript library that sits on top of the Chrome Dev Tools
protocol and it allows you to automate and script the Chrome browser.

My day-to-day work involves a lot of debugging web servers and ensuring. Like
many developers I use `curl` to make requests to a web server and check the
response. It's an amazing utility, however in today's world many developers are
building sites that are built using a lot of JavaScript and this makes it
impossible to inspect the complete response.

I decided to create a cUrl-like utility for fetching a resource and running the
JavaScript on the page called [`domcurl`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/domcurl).

`domcurl` is a [small NodeJS application](https://github.com/PaulKinlan/domcurl)
that uses Puppeteer and can be installed by issuing the following command: `npm
i domcurl`. Like the `curl` command you can issue a simple `domcurl [url]` to
fetch the resource and run the JS on the page.

It doesn't replicate all of `curl`, but it is quite featureful with the
following features.

* Specify a url to fetch. i.e, `domcurl [url]`
* Inspect the response headers with `-v`. i.e, `domcurl -v [url]`
* Set cookies with `-b` i.e, `domcurl [url] -b "test=hello;
  Domain=airhorner.com; HttpOnly;" -b "hello=world; Domain=airhorner.com;
  HttpOnly;"`
* Add custom headers using the `-H` argument.
* Manually set the STDOUT with `-o` and STDERR with `--stderr`

I'm finding it quite useful eventhough it can't stream the results like `curl`
can because it has to wait for the CSS and JS to be downloaded and executed.

I also took the liberty to add a couple of extra features that are specific to
JavaScript and Chrome.

* Output a Chrome Dev Tools trace file (including screens hots.) `domcurl --url
  https://example.com --trace test.json`
* Include it as a JavaScript module if you have the need to integrate it into
  any of your existing applications.

```javascript
const {domcurl} = require('domcurl');
domcurl(`https://paul.kinlan.me/`, {});
```

Whilst this tool is more of a demo than a full service, I think [The Headless
Web](/the-headless-web/) is maturing and tools like Puppeteer and others are
going to help us realize the continued power of the web. We just need to build
for it.