
---
title: Aug 15th, 2022 
date: 2022-08-14T23:02:21.287Z
slug: aug-15th-2022
type: journal
---
* Read [Adactio: Journal—Democratising dev](https://adactio.com/journal/19356) [#](#62f97efd-4df2-4038-b867-8013169fb077)<a name="62f97efd-4df2-4038-b867-8013169fb077"></a>
  * This is another great post, and there's this bit at the end:
> Don’t get me wrong. I love having my own website. Like, I *really* love it. But I’m also well aware that it doesn’t scale. It’s unreasonable to expect someone to learn new skills just to make a web page about, say, an event they want to publicise. [#](#62fa49e2-25ec-4f0b-be15-bd2ae662ae6c)<a name="62fa49e2-25ec-4f0b-be15-bd2ae662ae6c"></a>
  * I don't always think it's the complexity of building the site that is the biggest blocker to a lot of people, it's the deploying and running. When I speak to a lot of small businesses about getting online, they say "we're on Facebook", so I ask why? "It's free, it looks good and it works" is often the answer. I'm glad that Jeremy mentioned it at the end of the post.
> Convenience isn’t the only thing you get from using a silo like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. You also get “free” hosting …until you don’t (see GeoCities, MySpace, and [many, many more](https://indieweb.org/site-deaths)).

Something here needs to be solved for the masses. The value of these sites is that production of content on to them is incredibly simple and there is a network that drives engagement and visibility.

It's entirely feasible that someone could create an online tool for an event site, it spits out all the HTML and CSS, social-tags, all the stuff you need, but then you need to get it onto a URL which means paying for a domain and hosting, and then socialising it etc. [#](#62fa4cdc-642d-42a4-8f2d-a9029586b109)<a name="62fa4cdc-642d-42a4-8f2d-a9029586b109"></a>
  * > Wouldn’t it be great if everyone had a place on the web that they could truly call their own? Today you need to have an uneccesary[sic] degree of technical understanding to publish something at a URL you control.

I'd love everyone to have their own URL, but I don't always think the technical understanding is biggest the barrier, it's completely unclear to many the value of being online on a URL that you own, when there is immediate value on the other platforms. That is something I think we need to solve first, the technology is then easier and maybe more incentivised. [#](#62fa4dbd-8b06-4718-a2d5-ee39ef1a0c1c)<a name="62fa4dbd-8b06-4718-a2d5-ee39ef1a0c1c"></a>
* Read [Let websites framebust out of native apps | Holovaty.com](https://www.holovaty.com/writing/framebust-native-apps/) [#](#62fa79f0-4bf3-4991-a7a6-a9064043ae2b)<a name="62fa79f0-4bf3-4991-a7a6-a9064043ae2b"></a>
  * It's a long and *very* good read and boils down to:

> So my proposal is this: Apple and Google should honor the existing  `X-Frame-Options`  HTTP header in webviews. If a website is loaded into a webview, and the website includes the appropriate  `X-Frame-Options`  header, the mobile OS should immediately stop loading the webview and open the URL in the user’s preferred web browser.

I do like this solution and I don't disagree with it, it puts the emphasis on the developer to own their experience, however it means that the user doesn't have a choice in this, which goes against many principles of a User Agent. As a Developer Advocate for 'a browser', you'd think I'd be all over 'send the user to the browser' narrative - but... I don't know if I am, part of me really struggles to define what constitutes a browser and where one starts and another ends. I'd be interested to see how many people know what a browser is... [#](#62fa7a3d-9a59-43bf-a72f-e0127990353e)<a name="62fa7a3d-9a59-43bf-a72f-e0127990353e"></a>
    * Although .... [iOS Privacy: Announcing InAppBrowser.com - see what JavaScript commands get injected through an in-app browser · Felix Krause](https://krausefx.com/blog/announcing-inappbrowsercom-see-what-javascript-commands-get-executed-in-an-in-app-browser) - Another very good read. [#](#630341a0-33d4-4137-864e-874c4aed7dae)<a name="630341a0-33d4-4137-864e-874c4aed7dae"></a>
* A blast from the past - I was young and innovate once upon a time: [#](#62fa4dfc-7d2d-4da7-8322-f4b2a3737a2e)<a name="62fa4dfc-7d2d-4da7-8322-f4b2a3737a2e"></a>
  * [Ever wanted to micro-podcast to your FriendFeed? Try FriendBoo!](https://thenextweb.com/news/wanted-micropodcast-friendfeed-friendboo) [#](#62f27c77-489d-420a-b380-14cdd2aa91bb)<a name="62f27c77-489d-420a-b380-14cdd2aa91bb"></a>
  * [Google Gives Chrome Web Lab Experiments to GitHub](https://thenextweb.com/news/google-opens-its-chrome-web-lab-experiments-to-github-as-its-year-long-london-exhibition-ends) [#](#62f27c54-50e5-48d4-ab72-26576fdf7026)<a name="62f27c54-50e5-48d4-ab72-26576fdf7026"></a>
  * [This is Real Innovation: Vooices brings voice control to your browser – and to other spaces.](https://thenextweb.com/news/vooices-us) [#](#62f198f2-45bc-4f7b-8ce0-623b7bc0a922)<a name="62f198f2-45bc-4f7b-8ce0-623b7bc0a922"></a>
* Read [I made 100 CSS loaders for your next project - DEV Community](https://dev.to/afif/i-made-100-css-loaders-for-your-next-project-4eje) [#](#62fa518d-8ddf-47a1-880d-6ecb7b36dc9b)<a name="62fa518d-8ddf-47a1-880d-6ecb7b36dc9b"></a>
  * I do like these little bits of joy. Although I do wonder if we should encourage more use of the  `progress` HTML element. [#](#62fa5192-6c29-4372-977a-079a051bda24)<a name="62fa5192-6c29-4372-977a-079a051bda24"></a>
* I've been thinking about [Web Push](../entry/web-push) and [Notifications](../entry/notifications) coming to iOS and MacOS and it made me recollect the demo that [Paul Lewis](../entry/paul-lewis) made where he build [a game inside a notification](https://twitter.com/aerotwist/status/804411265439383552) [#](#62fa51f0-b0d9-4825-8d0c-320c02058dd1)<a name="62fa51f0-b0d9-4825-8d0c-320c02058dd1"></a>
  * Paul used: [Twine](https://twinery.org/2/#/) and hosted in  [GitHub - googlearchive/dev-quest: A sample notifications-based game](https://github.com/googlearchive/dev-quest) [#](#cf17d3fe-7ed4-4b5e-b843-844505f0450e)<a name="cf17d3fe-7ed4-4b5e-b843-844505f0450e"></a>
* Played [Color It - ReactJS](https://color-it-react.vercel.app) [#](#431e0df0-9c3e-4b64-be92-1f481d428414)<a name="431e0df0-9c3e-4b64-be92-1f481d428414"></a>
  * I'm personally never sure why React makes sense for games, but the output and experience is spectacular. [#](#62739667-0113-4996-8339-0ba11ec9e320)<a name="62739667-0113-4996-8339-0ba11ec9e320"></a>

