
---
title: Dec 13th, 2022 
date: 2022-12-13T09:55:15.367Z
slug: dec-13th-2022
type: journal
---
* Note taking has become irregular. Need to get back into it.
* Very happy to see updates to web.dev/learn
  * [Learn Accessibility](https://web.dev/learn/accessibility/)
  * [Learn HTML](https://web.dev/learn/html)
  * I know there is a lot more coming in the new year.
* Spent some time researching [ActivityPub](../entry/activitypub) - Personally I found it all a bit complex
  * Added ActivityPub to this blog so that it publishes a feed and posts it to subscribers.
  * ActivityPub ecosystem needs a Technical Writer.
  * The datastore is built on FireStore (works pretty well).
* For all that people talk about the amazing DX of Vercel and their tools, I felt like I constantly hit snags:
  * They don't (yet) have a deployment event webhook - so I can't tell when my site is successfully deployed (I need it for updating web-mentions and ActivityPub)... So I had to create an integration.
    * [GitHub - PaulKinlan/vercel-post-deploy-webhook](https://github.com/PaulKinlan/vercel-post-deploy-webhook) - I won't be deploying it to the Marketplace
  * I get why they have integrations as a business, but... There doesn't seem to be a way to test them without deploying them; Their API is not well documented; They have no client library - you can build one because they have an [OpenAPI](../entry/openapi) spec, but I found the tooling around this to be poor for JS and TypeScript - so I ended up just crating
  * Edge Middleware, Edge Functions and Serverless functions each with differing runtimes.
  * and... there's just a lot of stuff missing that I would expect from a cloud platform (scheduled tasks, recurring tasks, queued task) for example. I really don't want to have to research everything all the time in the platform (it's one of the reasons why I liked AppEngine).
  * That all being said - I still like Vercel.
* [Chat GPT](../entry/chat-gpt) is rather incredible - need to get researching ML again because the industry is passing me by and it all feels magic

