
---
title: Jun 21st, 2022 
date: 2022-06-27T21:14:12.094Z
slug: jun-21st-2022
type: journal
---
* Read [Drive a LED grid with a Raspberry Pi Pico and Web Serial - Part 1](https://bandarra.me/2022/02/23/Driving-a-ledgrid-with-a-Raspberry-Pi-Pico-and-WebSerial-Part-1/)
* Read [Best practices for using the Wake Lock API.](https://bandarra.me/2021/01/25/Best-practices-for-using-the-Wake-Lock-API/)
* Read [The cost of convenience](https://surma.dev/things/cost-of-convenience/)
id:: 62b1c918-9121-4f91-a772-ade70aa6dcba
  * I tend to agree a lot with what [Surma](../entry/surma) is saying.
  * While useful, I struggle a little with the [framework vs library framing](https://surma.dev/things/cost-of-convenience/#:~:text=I%20distinguish%20between%20a%20library%20and%20a%20framework%20by%20looking%20at%20the%20Inversion%20of%20Control) - "Your code is called by the framework" and "your code calls the library" by this logic the "Web" and Browser is also a framework.
  * 
  * "[Abstractions](../entry/abstractions)" - I suspect you will hear Google teams talking about this a lot more soon.
* TIL The [Speed Metrics](../entry/speed-metrics) team has a changelog [docs/speed/metrics_changelog - chromium/src - Git at Google](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/speed/metrics_changelog/) - wonder if anyone has made this in to an RSS feed?
  * So does lighthouse - [Lighthouse performance scoring](https://web.dev/performance-scoring/)
* Updated my Consultation slot to use Google Calendar.
* Writing about Web Platform Stability
  * DevSAT tell us that developers struggle to keep up with changes in the platform
  * Interop-2022 is a great project
  * Change of tone in how we communicate
  * Developers are telling us that it's more than just the platform, but it's also framework ecosystems move too quickly.
* Thought:
  * Hidden platforms - Clear that the web is a platform that you can build on, but there's also a [Chrome platform](../entry/chrome-platform) that is segmented into
    * [Extensions Platform](../entry/extensions-platform) - Users can supercharge the browser
    * [Developer Platform](../entry/developer-platform) - Developers can use Chrome to build businesses that take advantage of the internals of the engine.
      * Lighthouse - Lighthouse CI, StackPacks
      * Chrome DevTools
        * Chrome DevTools Protocol
        * DevTools extensions
        * Puppetteer

