
---
title: May 6th, 2022 
date: 2022-05-06T08:36:36.272Z
slug: may-6th-2022
type: journal
---
* Read [Slightly Random Interface Thoughts](https://bkardell.com/blog/OnInterfaces.html) by [Brian Kardell](../entry/brian-kardell)
  * "Wow - 1997 was a quarter of a century ago" - Loved this idea that when we look back to a quarter of a century ago from a quarter of a century prior what changed and look at how much things have changed. Everything and nothing.
  * It made me wonder about AR and VR - maybe my time has passed. I'm more comfortable in technology augmenting and improve some experiences ... heck, I'm sitting in the [British Airways](../entry/british-airways) lounge right now getting [Coffee](../entry/coffee) delivered to me by pointing my phone at a URL. I'm not a complete luddite but I do wonder if I will be considered one.
* Read [Responsible JavaScript](../entry/responsible-javascript) by [Jeremy Wagner](../entry/jeremy-wagner)
  * Read this on the plane and it was a throughly good and compact read. Lot's of great advice.
  * Main takeaway is that it's still an incredibly complex space, and one that a developer has to take control of otherwise poor performance will take control of you. There's a lot of strategies, but I'm still left wondering why focusing on performance is not the default for developers or the platform.
  * Wasps!
  * It was great to see talking about a number of issues that affect performance
    * Thermal Throttling
    * Device Capabilities - Nokia 2 Go ([Android](../entry/android))
  * Developers are ultimately responsible
  * The platform is far more capable now - you don't need so many libraries
  * Document your architectural choices and hold your projects to them
  * Server-first is User-first
  * SPA
    * Perceptual improvements to performance
    * However they have to use lot's of JS to replace infrastrutuce the browser already provides
      * Effective [Caching](../entry/caching) in a [Service Worker](../entry/service-worker) might be able to help with the same perceived performance benefits
    * Use effective [Caching](../entry/caching)
      * Mentions `immutable`, but I think this is only supported in [Firefox](../entry/firefox)
    * [Progressive Enhancement](../entry/progressive-enhancement)
      * `is` - mentions not in [Safari](../entry/safari)
      * Some interesting code to enhance a form element. Quite liked the submit button demo
  * Metrics
    * [Lab Metrics](../entry/lab-metrics)
    * [Field Metrics](../entry/field-metrics)
    * [FP](../entry/fp), [FCP](../entry/fcp), [LCP](../entry/lcp)
    * [CLS](../entry/cls)
    * [TTI](../entry/tti), [FID](../entry/fid), [TBT](../entry/tbt)
  * Tools
    * [Chrome](../entry/chrome) uses flame charts for tasks, but also has per-frame
    * [Safari](../entry/safari) bar chart on a per-frame basis.
    * Has a really good explainer of how to use [Chrome DevTools](../entry/chrome-devtools) for [Loading Performance](../entry/loading-performance), [Runtime Performance](../entry/runtime-performance) and how to test on devices
  * Responsible feature delivery
    * You should be able to reply in `import` syntax and function
    * Enables good [code-splitting](../entry/code-splitting) and useful for selectively loading [polyfills](../entry/polyfills)
    * [Resource hints](../entry/resource-hints)
      * Add to header or head for critical JS so we get a headstart
    * [Save-Data](../entry/save-data) header
      * Understand your users might have it set and respond appropriately, can either think about it on the server or the client.
    * [Service Worker](../entry/service-worker), navigationPreload can help massively improve performance (theres a chart with interesting data)
  * Tools
    * [Transpilers](../entry/transpilers) [Bundlers](../entry/bundlers) - be careful can add significant code that you might not have been aware of, but they can have a postivie impact by helping you split code and compress etc.
    * Understand your users browsers and you can make better decisions.
  * Use the browser feature as much as possible, [HTML](../entry/html) and [CSS](../entry/css)
  * Oberserver API's to react when the user does something - reaches a certain point, then load more code etc.
  * Think about Idle time and do things then, can help stop jank in user interactions.
  * 3rd Party JS
    * Can be very bad. Developers should take more control.
    * Can lead on to a lot of non-performant related issues, security etc.
* TODO Research https://github.com/yjs/yjs
* 

